# GAN-Based Synthetic Data Augmentation to Address Class Imbalance in RetinaMNIST Dataset
This github repository contains the python notebook which contains deep learning models that solves the problem of class imbalance in the <a href="https://medmnist.com">RetinaMNIST</a> dataset.
<table>
  <tr>
    <th>Team</th>
    <td>SyntheticGANg</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>Course</th>
    <td>Neural Networks and Deep Learning (Spring 2025)</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>Instructor</th>
    <td>John Sipple</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>Team Members</th>
    <td>
      <p>Balaji Senthilkumar</p>
      <p>Pranav Parthasarathy</p>
      <p>Sai Harsha Gangari</p>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

### Project Structure:
<ul>
  <li>
    <b><a href="https://github.com/harshagangari747/SyntheticGANg_NNDL_Final_Project/blob/main/SyntheticGANg%20VGG%20Final.ipynb">SyntheticGANg VGG Final.ipynb</a> </b> - Main python notebook that contains code and latest results of our experiment 
  </li>
  <li>
    <b>weights</b> - Zip file contains pretained weights of base CNN model trained on original dataset, augmented dataset and weights of generator and discriminator
  </li>
  <li>
    <b>best_images/20250505-021307/</b> - Folder contains 300 images of gan generated synthetic images that has highest SSIM scores. These images are generated by the model with archticture discribed in the </br>
SyntheticGANg VGG Final.ipynb notebook
  </li>
  <li>
    <b>best_generatedimages/20250425-212559</b> - Folder contains 50 images of gan generated synthetic images that has highest SSIM scores, but generated by a gan with different architectural properties
  </li>

  <li>
    <b>predicted_images/20250505-021307</b> - Folder contains 500 images of gan generated images. These images are generated by the model with archticture discribed in the </br>
SyntheticGANg VGG Final.ipynb notebook
  </li>
</ul>

### How to run the SyntheticGANg VGG Final.ipynb notebook
<b>Note</b> This project was built using google colab platform connected to <u>local jupyter runtime on macOS</u>. Setting of MPS (Metal Performance Shaders) is optional when run on Linux/Windows OS.All the instructions
indicate that the project is run on macOS until unless specified.
<ul>
  <li>
    Clone the project to an empty directory. Example: /Users/abc/GAN Project
  </li>
  <li>
    Connect to the local jupyter server (python 3 kernel)
  </li>
  <li>
    Extract the weights zip file to the same project directory using the command <code>'unzip weights.zip' </code> (only for macOS). Ex: /Users/abc/GAN Project/weights/
  </li>
  <li>
    When running the python notebook, the prompt ask to chose a base directory. Give the path to the project directory. This directory is used to store all the results. Ex: /Users/abc/GAN Project
  </li>
  <li>
    To use the baseline CNN model with pretrained weights, keep the checkbox <b>use_pretained_cnn_weights marked</b>. You need not run the plot history or save weights when opted for this choice.
    It holds same for the GAN and augmented CNN model
  </li>
  <li>
    However, if you would like to train the model, <b>uncheck</b> the <b>use_pretained_cnn_weights</b> checkbox. In this case you need to run plot history function and optionally save weights 
  </li>
</ul>


